Let's make a new folder for like, I guess, albums? Maybe also albums and then artist name, which was XYH, and then the album, because I'm probably gonna have several artist names. And I don't know what I'm gonna do with these. Maybe these will become the sort of like web version of the, when I start releasing albums, I actually probably should make one for some of my existing stuff as well. But for now, I wanna talk about my album, Desiderata. And before, basically, I start forgetting what I've done, because I need to talk about process and poetics and things like that. So first of all, this is a five-track album, Desideaxrata, and I kind of, the basic concept of it is to kind of create vocal fleshscapes, if that's, and like, I guess I initially had this idea of like iridescent flesh or vocality. I guess it, maybe, maybe, yeah, like the initial idea of this wasn't really a sonic inspiration, it's a visual inspiration, thinking about like, iridescent fleshscapes. And I'm using iridescence because it's like, it's organic or like flesh-related, body-related, but a little bit unnatural, or at least framing the body in a way that, kind of like accentuating these kind of things about it that people don't think to be associated with the body, which sometimes the body can. I guess I've been thinking a lot about my own skin tone, which is like an olive tone, which tends to be a bit like more desaturated. And like when I buy foundation, typically, it can lean a little too pink or a little too orange, or particularly lipstick. Anyway, it's kind of weird, like I just started with that idea. I mean, I've made like a, okay, now I'm just rambling. Not all of this has to make it to the final copy, but it's kind of like maybe it's even at least notes to myself. So I kind of started from there, from the idea of like flesh that's a bit desaturated, kind of iridescent under some light, skin can look like this. Skin can be quite colorful, I think, and things like that. So I guess like starting from the idea of that, I was like, how do you, there's a sonic, the kind of like sonic rhyme to this. Or is something that's totally vocal, and totally vocal, only vocals, but maybe manipulated a little bit and then turned into a kind of drone, droning landscape. So this is, so that's basically the whole concept of it. It's like drones made of pure vocal scapes that are maybe a little bit manipulated to be a bit eerie and something like that. And I think I really also started doing this because I was experimenting with layering on my other album, which is After Green, which is a clean core album, which I'm still, I still have like one song in that to finish. I've had to like learn and experiment with different techniques in creating soundscapes. Now soundscapes there will tend to be kind of, obviously a little more lush, a little more, you know, not so like, they're supposed to be a bit inviting. I mean, it's clean core. But I needed to come up with different techniques and learn different techniques to kind of produce evolving soundscapes. So, because After Green is kind of like, it's supposed to be a kind of like utilitarian, kind of meditative album that people turn on or something. So in the process of that, I obviously have, or I guess like there's a lot of like, I guess like waste or like, for example, like rejected experiments or like waste products or something like that, or like even if like I use a sound that's barely audible in the front, and I'm like, okay, but what, but then if I pull, if I take everything out and just isolate that, it can turn into its own kind of piece. So things like that. So I think in the process of making especially like a bigger kind of work like an album or even just a song, you can get a lot of like byproducts, I guess. I don't know, you won't call them waste material, but like byproducts that you can then reuse and reuse. And I think I've learned that over the many years that I've been making stuff, is that a lot of the stuff that you've already recorded, that you've already done, and I guess this applies also to like, for example, in visual art, when you're making sketches, you can, even if you don't like the sketch or it's not the final product, they can then be scanned, manipulated, cut up again, reused. So in the life of a practice, sometimes like, yeah, like when you practice, you've been practicing things long enough, it's easy to kind of have on hand material for you to manipulate already or use again, because you've just made that much stuff. Anyway. So where I'm gonna go with this is that this really started with me having this sort of like recorded song that I had, and I recorded it in my bathroom, and it's the bathroom of my old house, which we got evicted from. And that was kind of the seed of the entire After Green album. Like, I started the idea of After Green, it was recorded in the bathroom, so it had these sort of like, like the echoes of the tiles and stuff, and the raw, like, not super polished singing. I kind of took the intervals of that melody, I think I wrote the intervals first, but I got the intervals of the melody and turned it into the pitch set that is used in After Green. Now I'm talking a lot about After Green, but maybe I shouldn't. But anyway, maybe we should sort that for something else. But let's, going back to Desiderata, I also, I had that track, that vocal track, and I slowed it down using PaulStretch, gave it more reverb so it was like this evolving melody or soundscape instead that stretched to like two minutes, three minutes, even though the original recording is around just like 20 seconds or something. And I started to layer them where I'd drop, I'd layer another track of the same thing and shift it down like several octaves. So then now you have these kind of like, these melodies that sort of like layer with each other, but I mean melodies in a very like long range sense, because these are like melodies that occur, I mean, over like 20 seconds and no changes like 10 to 20 seconds. So I mean loosely, so you don't really sense a melody in that sense, right? Like they're just like tone scapes essentially. But then now you have like, I think in ambient music or like drone, and well, mostly in ambient, you're thinking a lot about the spectral. Like, you're not really thinking too much anymore about like the harmony or whatever or melody or rhythm. Those are not the sort of touch points that you're looking at in ambient music. You're thinking more about texture and you're thinking about the spectral range, like, okay, how much of the bass is being filled, how much of the middle is being filled. So you know, just by doing this sort of technique, that's sort of how I got this first track of Desiderata, which I initially wanted to be the first track. 

Okay, and I knew kind of from the start that I wanted desiderata to be not such a huge work, but maybe it could be like a sequence of like vocal works, and this would be the first. Definitely on my mind was that, okay, this is kind of tangential to who, like, maybe Bjork, Bjork Medulla, and... Meredith Monk, I think. But I think I have never yet heard sort of, I have never yet heard a bunch of works that uses the vocal as a primary source of like a drone. I don't think that that is something I have seen. So, and also like a lot of these vocal works just don't work in an ambient context or like a drone context where it's, you know, sort of supposed to be wallpaper material. Almost like, like it's supposed to just be like a still, or like a drone. It doesn't have to be still, but like an evolving kind of blank-ish landscape. Yeah. And I think there's a certain sensibility. By sensibility, I mean, you kind of have to understand the culture of ambient music that is like, who uses it, how do people listen to it, etc., etc. And I think a lot of ambient people obviously are coming from, like, they're not vocal. They're not vocalists. They come from, they're either, it's either electronic or like field recordings or coming from like sound stuff, but they're not typically performers. So I think this is an interesting thing where like, it's almost like I'm taking this thing that's typically performative and very in front, which is the vocal, and turning it into sonic material as an ambient work. Yeah. Anyway, so, knowing that, I actually had a second track that I wrote, which was sort of like a vocoded song that I made, which is a vocoded version of Phoebe Bridgers' Smoke Signals. And I was like, oh, I can reuse that. So I did. I cut it up, and then I kind of did my best to kind of like, kind of like ease it in. But I think ultimately with that, like, I ultimately do reject that from the album. I think it can be for something in the future. Because it sounded too musical. And I was just like, I think we need to lock in the concept of desiderata, which it is a landscape, it is a drone. If it starts sounding too musical, and by musical I mean, you're starting to think about melody now, you're starting to think about, you're starting to think about harmony now. Well, you can think about harmony in Desiderata, but like, harmonic progression now, maybe. I think like, you're trying to de-emphasize that in ambient music. So, but it's still, I mean, you can argue that it's still ambient. There's no strict thing, but like for what this is going for, I'm trying to go for really drone-esque sort of ambient. So, so I decided to take it out. I guess maybe, I mean, I've only written two out of five tracks of this, and so it might, it might come back. So I'm right, I'm recording this in this voice note in a point where, you know, I've only done just two out of the five. And I also, now to go into the literary part of this, I think I had this thought like while being out, where I was like, all right, the track list of DeSiderata.

I could begin wanting
anything about this 
world wet stone 
undigested through one 
mouth out the other

Right, the tracklist of Desiderata, which is, um, okay, I was like, this could, this tracklist could be a short poem, where every line is a line in the poem. And this is my tracklist, and I think, um...

I think when I started thinking about fleshscapes, I think I started to think about, I mean, I've done, I've had some revisions of this, but definitely like I had to limit like the lines could be way too long because they had to be songs still, and the cuts had to be active, the enjambment, of course, well, this is how poetry works. But, you know, it was also this sort of like bringing back the themes that I think about, which are a lot about the body. But I think there's something about this one where maybe I was thinking it or maybe I was writing it, it definitely feels a bit cosmic, and I think it's a lot like feelings about maybe the cosmic, maybe about existentialism, maybe about rejection or like rejecting a want, which is actually interesting. I don't know why I began with the word desiderata actually as the title, and I think I did because I was thinking how erotic the idea of a fleshscape was. But then I think from there I started to thinking about the difficulty of existing in the body, and the difficulty particularly of my own experience existing in the body, and the sort of like mutual organ rejection of the body and the world or something like that. I mean, these are really vague ideas, and I don't think I, I mean, these are just the themes that have coursed through this very short track list. And something like that. Like, and I think like with the word desiderata, it's like, so like, what is the desire of a body in this world? And is there something to desire? And is that desire wired or is it chosen? Or, and if it is chosen, why, what's the reason to choose to desire? Something like that. There's a lot of like certain, I mean, yeah, I guess it's sort of what I like about poetry. You can really like pack in these themes in just five lines and maybe not also like overly close those themes and give a solid answer. But I mean, this is also like personal feelings or something that I feel. And I think there's also like the thought of like, okay, we have to incorporate something about, something material, something like that. I mean, yeah, that's why we have stones and mouths and whatnot. I mean, mouths are important in a, an ambient album that is sort of only vocal. So anyway, what happened, ended up happening to the track that I recorded in the bathroom, that track that I kind of stretched out, became the track World Wet Stone. And it made sense for me because I was like, okay, well, I had this other insight where maybe each sound piece has some kind of tangential thing to do with the line that it is or the track title. So I was like, okay, this is World Wet Stone. It's an ambient track built out of like the sound of my voice singing into like tiles that reflect, which is a shower, it makes sense, a World Wet Stone. And it's also oddly a house that we've been, me and my family have been evicted from. So I don't know. I mean, and that appears both in my After Green Clean Core album, which is ironic, and also appears here. But obviously, its tone here, it's focused a lot more on the sort of like unsettling qualities rather than the more calming, reassuring qualities of After Green, I'd say. And then the second track I've written was actually the first line, which is I could begin wanting. And for this one, I was like, all right, what if we, well, I think I was like, I will now make a song that's just breath. So it's constructed totally out of me recording myself breathing and using my tools, Meta Chamber, as well as Horn of Plenty. These are not tools I've used in the making of Desiderata, which, you know, one is a reverb and also like a back-and-forth reverb, you can do a pre-verb. And the other is a stationarizer. So I've used that to sort of do something to my breathing so that it, I don't know, it sounds like a shore, I guess. But I was like, definitely, I have to do only breath here because it's like I could begin wanting. It's like the breath before something vocal happens. And I also reused like in the film that I scored, which is Palibot Libot, I scored that in 2018. I did these sound effects. So it's a very synth score, it's very cyberpunk, it's very Berlin School, very Tangerine Dream, very ONP, you know, Daniel Lopatin, Point Never kind of vibe, like Good Time. But I had this thought that, and it's a film where it follows, it doesn't follow people, it actually follows like money. So every time the money changes hands, it changes perspective. And I was like, I have to note that. So I added these sound effects in the film where every time the money changes hands, I had this recording of my breath, which I reversed, and so that plays every time we see the money being exchanged. And I was like, I think we could use this here. So I basically took all of those reversed breaths that indicate money changing hands, and they're basically peppered throughout the first track, I Could Begin Wanting, parallel to the sort of breaths that I have sort of done pre-verb, after verb, like reverb effects, which sound like, I don't know, to me, it sounds like the ocean, like the washing of waves. Because like these pre-verb where it kind of reverbs into the sound and then out of the sound, it sounds like it extends the breath in a way that feels like unnatural to like a human breath, and yet it is still my breath. So it sounds like waves in a way, but you can definitely hear that it's breathing, but it's strange, it's like, yeah. So anyway, those are the tracks that I've done. This is the beginning of the concept of Desiderata. We can make a folder structure for this. I have a lot of thoughts here that are like just random things. But maybe before we make like anything about it, I just want to store this as a markdown file first, all of these thoughts. And we can kind of sort through them later on because some of the things I've said here might need to go to the After Green, and some of them might need to go to the other notes for other pieces. But anyway, here.

Here's the final directory i'm thinking xyhtamura.github.io\xyh\desiderata\[].md
 
